She said the fact that she has to constantly move between the hot air outdoors and the cold air-conditioned temperatures indoors may be a reason why she’s been frequently catching colds since moving to Kuala Lumpur a year ago.
She observed that Malaysians tackled this risk by only going out after the sun completely sets, or when it rains. "I didn't have to do so when I was in Vietnam," she said.
Earlier this week, a 19-month-old child was believed to have died from heatstroke in Kota Baru, Kelantan, northern Malaysia. Ahmad Faris Fazli Mohd Nasir, the child’s father, said his daughter Nur Imani began coughing a week ago and had been vomiting, The Strait Times reported.
Tien said Thai authorities warned residents across large swathes of the country, including Bangkok, to avoid going outdoors due to extreme heat.
"At the moment, the temperature in Bangkok stays around 37-38 degrees Celsius, sometimes it can go up to 40 degrees Celsius," he added.
He’s currently working hybrid, only going to the office a few times a week and working from home the rest of the time. But the more he stays at home, the higher his electric bill gets.
"In this weather, I can’t survive at home without turning on air conditioning," Tien said.
Le, a 27-year-old office worker in Jakarta, Indonesia, had also noticed her colleagues and friends discussing a potential heatwave, which they said might cause the temperatures in the country to rise to between 32 and 36 degrees Celsius, an unusually high average.
Although these figures were not as high as in other Southeast Asian countries, Indonesians are more concerned about the effect of the ultraviolet (UV) radiation from the sun.
Le said The Meteorology, Climatology and Geophysics Agency (BMKG) of Indonesia has predicted that the UV index of sunlight in most areas in Indonesia is currently in the high and extremely dangerous category.
"Local authorities warned citizens to put on sunscreen before going out," she told VnExpress. "I was actually reluctant to wear sunscreen when I was in Vietnam. However, since experiencing the high temperatures here, I started to take up the habit."
However, the rainy season is about to begin in Thailand, which has given people hope that the heatwave will soon come to an end, reported The Guardian.
In the meantime, people have been adapting to endure the heat while waiting for the cooler weather.
"I think after familiarizing myself with things at work and getting used to neighborhoods in Bangkok, I’ll buy a motorbike," said Long. "I hope the hot weather will be more bearable getting around with a private vehicle."
Le also wants to change her means of transport.
She’s planning to travel by cars instead of motorbikes if the heat continues, and she’ll always be carrying her portable UV-protection kit which consists of a hat, sunscreen, a long-sleeved shirt, and a bottle of water.
Tien is also adjusting his daily routine to deal with the heat. "I will do what work I can finish at home in the morning. For other things that needs to be done outdoors, I’ll do them in the late afternoon or evening, when the sun has already set," he said.
"The rainy season is coming so I hope it helps a bit with cooling down the heat. Nonetheless, the weather is normally often hot in Bangkok anyway, so I think I’ll get used to this heatwave one way or another."
Since moving to Kuala Lumpur from Hanoi, Vietnam one year ago, Mai has established a new habit of bringing an umbrella, a bottle of water, and sunscreen with her every time she goes out. She hopes this will help protect her throughout the heatwave and the rest of her time in Malaysia.
"[But even after the heatwave ends] It will always be hot in Malaysia anyway," she said.